There are many different types of Australian Climate to consider for a build. 

Our's is: Climate zone 2: Warm humid summer, mild winter


Climate characteristics
Distinct summer and winter seasons; hot to very hot summers and mild winters
Moderate to low day–night (diurnal) temperature range, which can vary significantly between regions (for example, inland to coastal)
High humidity with a definite dry season during winter
Design objectives
The main aims in this zone are to eliminate the need for heating in winter and reduce the need for cooling in summer, in a humid climate.

Design considerations
Orientate the building for exposure to cooling breezes and design for cross-ventilation.
Use narrow floor plans and design openings to encourage movement of breezes through and with the building.
Make sure your design maximises night-time sleeping comfort. Locate sleeping spaces in lower levels. Use low or no thermal mass in sleeping spaces to prevent radiant heat at bed-time. Consider sleep-out spaces.
Provide screened and shaded outdoor living areas.
Windows and shading
Avoid overuse of glazing.
Use low SHGC glazing in all cases and low U value glazing with thermally broken frames in regions with cooler winters or hotter summers.
Use 100% openable windows such as louvre or casement.
Shade all east- and west-facing walls and glass year round
Shade south-facing walls in buildings that are north of the tropic of Capricorn.
In more southerly and inland regions heating requirements increase, so use appropriate levels of passive shaded north-facing glass.
Insulation
Meet or exceed recommended minimum insulation levels for the climate region. Avoid installing bulk insulation in ceilings and walls unless winter heating is used (refer to Insulation).
In areas where no winter heating is required, use multiple layers of reflective foil in ceiling and roof spaces to create a 1-way valve effect.
Insulate internal wall surfaces from any external thermal mass.
Use highly breathable reflective vapour barriers in walls and add bulk insulation to rooms that are air-conditioned.
Line open ventilated spaces with reflective foil insulation and design to remove condensation.
Use roof spaces to provide heat flow buffer zones by ventilating them in summer and sealing them in winter with fans or ‘smart’ ventilators (refer to Passive cooling).
Heating and cooling
Avoid installing auxiliary heating.
Check typical heating requirements in the local area to determine appropriate passive heating levels (consult your local thermal performance expert).
Use high-energy-rated cooling appliances in selected rooms.
Include ceiling fans in all living and sleeping spaces.
Construction systems
Use lightweight wall construction where day–night temperature ranges are low, and add thermal mass where these ranges exceed 6°C.
Where summer ground temperatures exceed 19°C at a depth of 3 metres, use elevated lightweight floors. Consider using earth-coupled slabs in all areas where deep ground temperatures are less than 19°C in summer.
Choose light-coloured roof and wall materials.

https://www.yourhome.gov.au/passive-design/design-climate
